# httrack2warc
Converts HTTrack crawls to WARC files

Status: First release available, only limited testing.

## Usage

Download the [latest release jar](https://github.com/nla/httrack2warc/releases)
and run it under Java 8 or later.

```
Usage:
  java -jar httrack2warc-0.1.0-shaded.jar [OPTIONS...] -o outdir crawldir

Options:
  -h, --help                   Show this screen.
  -o, --outdir DIR             Directory to write output (default: current working directory).
  -s, --size BYTES             WARC size target (default: 1GB).
  -n, --name PATTERN           WARC name pattern (default: crawl-%d.warc.gz).
  -Z, --timezone ZONEID        Timezone of HTTrack logs (default: ?).
  -I, --warcinfo 'KEY: VALUE'  Add extra lines to warcinfo record.
  -C, --compression none|gzip  Type of compression to use (default: gzip).
```

## Known issues and limitations

### HTTP headers

By default HTTrack does not record HTTP headers. If the --debug-headers option is specified however the file
hts-ioinfo.txt will be produced containing a log of the request and response headers.

When headers are available httrack2warc produces WARC records of type request and response. When headers are unavailable
only WARC resource records are produced.

### IP addresses and DNS records

HTTrack does not record DNS records or the IP addresses of hostnames therefore httrack2warc cannot produce
WARC-IP-Address or DNS records.

### HTTrack version compatiblity

Some testing has been done against crawls generated by the following versions: 3.01, 3.21-4, 3.49-2. Not all combinations
of options have been tested.

## Compilation

Install Java JDK 8 (or later) and [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/).  On Fedora Linux:

    dnf install java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel maven

Then compile using Maven from the top-level of this repository:

     cd httrack2warc
     mvn package

This will produce an executable jar file which you can run like so:

    java -jar target/httrack2warc-*-shaded.jar --help

## License

Copyright (C) 2017 National Library of Australia

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE).

## Similar Projects

* [HTTrack2Arc](https://github.com/arquivo/httrack2arc)
* [Netarchive Suite migrations](https://sbforge.org/sonar/drilldown/measures/1?metric=lines&rids%5B%5D=16)
* [warc-tools httrack2warc.sh](https://code.google.com/archive/p/warc-tools/source/default/source?page=6)
